Linked lists are a data structure used in programming to store and organize data. They are made up of nodes, where each node contains a data element and a reference to the next node in the list.
The first node in the list is called the head, and the last node is called the tail. Linked lists are useful for many reasons. For example, they can be used to implement dynamic data structures that can grow or shrink as needed. They can also be used to implement queues, stacks, and other abstract data types.
A node is a data structure that contains a data element and a reference to the next node in the list. In a singly linked list, each node has only one reference, which is to the next node. In a doubly linked list, each node has two references, one to the previous node and one to the next node.
/A node in a linked list is a struct that contains a data element and a pointer to the next node in the list. In C++, we can define a node like this:
/Here, data is the data element stored in the node, and next is a pointer to the next node in the list. We use a pointer instead of a reference because we will be modifying the node pointers in memory.
/To create a linked list, we start with a pointer to the head of the list, which is initially null. We add nodes to the list by allocating memory for a new node, setting its data element, and updating the pointers.
The head and tail attributes are pointers to the first and last nodes in the list, respectively. The add_node method creates a new node with the given data and adds it to the end of the list. If the list is empty, the new node becomes both the head and tail. Otherwise, the new node is added to the end of the list and becomes the new tail.
/Traversing a linked list is a common operation. To traverse a linked list, we start at the head and follow the next pointers until we reach the tail. We can also traverse a linked list in reverse by starting at the tail and following the previous pointers until we reach the head. This can be done in O(n) time.
/Deleting a node from a linked list is a useful operation. To delete a node, we need to update the pointers of the previous and next nodes. If the node is the head, we update the head pointer. If the node is the tail, we update the tail pointer. Otherwise, we update the next and previous pointers of the previous and next nodes. This can be done in O(1) time.
/Adding an element to a linked list can have different time and space complexities depending on where the element is being added and the implementation of the linked list. Adding to the front of a singly or doubly linked list takes O(1) time and space, while adding to the end of a singly linked list takes O(n) time and O(1) space. Adding to the middle of a linked list takes O(n) time and O(1) space. The appropriate location to add elements depends on the requirements of the application.
Let's consolidate what we have just learned!